# Timeliness_analysis
The Productive Safety Net Programme (PSNP) is Ethiopia’s rural safety net designed to support poor food insecure rural households through the provision of timely and predictable benefits. The PSNP was launched in 2005 and currently provides support to approximately 2 million eligible households (8 million beneficiaries) in: Afar, Amhara, Dire Dawa, Harari, Oromia, Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples (SNNP), Somali and Tigray.   Households that have able-bodied adult labour engage in Public Works (PW) and receive transfers for six months of the year. Households without labour capacity, Permanent Direct Support (PDS) clients, receive 12 months of unconditional transfers. The timing of PW and associated transfers vary from region to region. While many woredas are scheduled to pay benefits to PW clients during the months February to July (for January-June entitlements) all woredas in Somali region and some woredas in Oromia have different transfer schedules.   One of the major agreements and changes made during the PSNP 4 Mid Term Review (MTR) was not to finance the federal contingency budget from the existing resources and scaling up safety net support in response to drought shocks primarily due to funding gap for the core program which will in turn help (i) strengthen the linkage between the PSNP and Humanitarian Food Assistance (HFA) and (ii) support the application of a common set of operational procedures  to the provision of the PSNP transfers and transfers to the non PSNP households in response to drought. Linked to this for 2017 ad-hoc Federal contingency resources were mobilized through the World Bank Group, USAID through its PSNP implementing NGO Partners, DFID, WFP and UNICEF financial contributions to finance payments to be transferred to PSNP and non PSNP beneficiaries affected by the on-going drought. In the PSNP 4 logical framework, there are indicators that track timeliness of Federal contingency budget utilization. Specifically, these performance targets indicate that percentage of clients receiving contingency resources within 60 days of identification of needs .   
